doc(server-side-events): create event emitter (#847)
front-commerce/developers.front-commerce.com: docs/02-guides/server-side-events/create-an-event.mdx

---
title: Create an event
description:
  In this guide, we will cover the creation of an emitter and how to implement
  them in your pages, we will create an Emitter that Emit an event when a
  customer reach a page called FAQ.
sidebar_position: 1
---

<p>{frontMatter.description}</p>

## What is an event emitter

The events are dispatched through the use of an event emitter. The role of the
event emitter is to push events to the server event pipeline to be processed by
the server.

## Create a new route

Create the following route in your project:

```tsx title="app/routes/_main.faq.tsx"
export default function FAQ() {
  return (
    <div>
      <h1>FAQ</h1>
    </div>
  );
}
```

And now test your route by starting your Front-Commerce server and navigate to
[http://localhost:4000/faq](http://localhost:4000/faq).

> You should now see your brand new page.

Reviewer: I would not start with this, as it's totally unrelated to the context of the current documentation, and it's documenting in https://deploy-preview-847--heuristic-almeida-1a1f35.netlify.app/docs/3.x/get-started/your-first-route

Author: Removed

> ## Create an Emitter class

Reviewer 2: **issue:** there's a conceptual issue in this documentation page. This class isn't an emitter. It's a domain event.

**suggestion:** rework the content to remove the misuse of the "emitter" term.

This documentation explains how to create a domain event class (containing all the meaningful domain information to describe what happens) and how to publish it on the server event bus.

Author: Reworked a bit the introduction and wording in the doc, feel free to re-open if you have specific ideas in mind

Let's create a file in our project, called `FAQPageReached.ts`:

```tsx title="app/server-events/events/FAQPageReached.ts"
import { ServerEvent } from "@front-commerce/core/events";

// Name of the event that will be dispatched to the external services
const FAQPageReachedName = "FAQPageReachedEvent";

// Object that will be sent to external services
type FAQPageReachedEventType = {
  question: string;
};

> export default class FAQPageReachedEvent extends ServerEvent<FAQPageReachedEventType> {

Reviewer: Is `ServerEvent` documented somewhere? reading this I can't find reference to `ServerEvent`, and seeing that you are passing in multiple params to the `super` it's unclear what those params represent.

I would say this needs to be documented under `API Reference` ->`@front-commerce/core` -> `Server Event`

Author: added

> // This class will handle data to be pushed to the server event pipeline

Reviewer 3: **thought:** "handle" can be misleading here, in the sense it may mean the class may alter the data. However, this is a domain class, meaning it's basically a data container.

**suggestion:** Change "handle" to "contain".

>   // It will call the super constructor (constructor of ServerEvent)

Reviewer 3: **issue:** This comment states the obvious, which is also plain JS / TS. There is no need to specify this.

**suggestion:** Remove those comment lines and keep the link to the API reference only.

  // See https://developers.front-commerce.com/docs/3.x/api-reference/front-commerce-core/ServerEvent#arguments
  constructor(questionSlug: string, upvote: boolean, shopId: string) {
    super(
      QuestionVotedEventName,
      new Date(),
      { questionSlug, upvote },
      // This are the event metadata, they are relative to the event
      // but don't contain event data, here we collect the shopId
      // to determine on which shop the question has been voted

>       { shopId }

Reviewer 3: **issue:** This comment is a bit confusing. Metadata _are_ part of the event data (else it wouldn't be needed in this constructor). They are not, however, part of the even _payload_.

**suggestion:** Rework this comment to be clearer about that point.

    );
  }
}
```

:::info

You can check the

> [ServerEvent Reference](/docs/3.x/api-reference/front-commerce-core/ServerEvent)

Reviewer 3: **nit(non-blocking):**

> [ServerEvent API Reference](/docs/3.x/api-reference/front-commerce-core/ServerEvent)

instead of 

> [ServerEvent Reference](/docs/3.x/api-reference/front-commerce-core/ServerEvent)

> out to learn more about the usage of ServerEvent class.

Reviewer 3: **nit:** Use code formatting for class names

**suggestion:**

> [`ServerEvent` Reference](/docs/3.x/api-reference/front-commerce-core/ServerEvent)
> out to learn more about the usage of `ServerEvent` class.

:::

## Use the Event

> Now that we've created a Domain event class, let's use it in a route action:

Reviewer 3: **nit:** Use code formatting for route API methods:

**suggestion:**

> Now that we've created a Domain event class, let's use it in a route's `action`:

  // We parse the question from the URL
  const question = new URL(request.url).searchParams.get("question");

  // We emit the event!
  app.services.ServerEventBus.publish(
    new FAQPageReachedEvent(String(question), app.config.public.shop.locale)
  );
  return {};
}
//highlight-end

export default function FAQ() {
  return (
    <div>
      <h1>FAQ</h1>
    </div>
  );
}
```

## Test our emitter

> Now that everything is ready, let's test it! To do so, run the Front-Commerce
> Worker by running:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Now that everything is ready, let's test it! To do so, start the Front-Commerce
Worker by running:
```

Author: fixed

```shell

> pnpm worker

Reviewer: Although this works, I think it's better to stay in line with other package managers

```suggestion
pnpm run worker
```

Author: Fixed

```

The worker will boot:

```
2024-02-20 18:14:07 [info]:     Font-Commerce Server Events Worker
2024-02-20 18:14:07 [info]:     Please wait booting...
2024-02-20 18:14:09 [info]:     Worker started
```

And now let's head to our FAQ page!

You will see new output to the worker:

```
[ConsoleIntegration]: (1708449459736-0) {"event_type":"FAQPageReachedEvent","created_at":"2024-02-20T17:17:39.735Z","payload":"{\"question\":\"null\"}","metadata":"{\"locale\":\"en-GB\"}"}
```

Now let's add some question in URL and head to :

> [http://localhost:4000/faq?question=how+to+create+an+event+emitter](http://localhost:4000/faq?question=how+to+create+an+event+emitter)

Reviewer: If it's added to the faq-demo, then this can be removed.

Author: removed

---
title: Create an event
description:
  In this guide, we will cover the creation of an emitter and how to implement
  them in your pages, we will create an Emitter that Emit an event when a

>   customer reach a page called FAQ.

Reviewer 3: **issue:** This is now wrong after the rework.

```suggestion
  customer votes on an FAQ question.
```

Author: Fixed with your suggestion

sidebar_position: 1
---

<p>{frontMatter.description}</p>

## What is an event emitter

The events are dispatched through the use of an event emitter. The role of the
event emitter is to push events to the server event pipeline to be processed by
the server.

Emitter are implemented in Domain Event class that define an event related to a

> specific event for your app.

Reviewer 3: **issue:** I don't this this sentence makes sense, emitters aren't domain event classes, server events are 😕. I think the domain event class you're referring to are `ServerEvent`s. Server events are "emitted" through an `EventEmitter` (which is a [standard node feature](https://nodejs.org/api/events.html#class-eventemitter)) to be pushed on the server event pipeline, and then be processed.

Author: i'll remove it then

Author: Fixed with your suggestion

## Prerequisites

Before diving into the code, ensure you have the following prerequisites in
place:

- A Front-Commerce project configured and ready to use
- [FAQ GraphQL Module](https://gitlab.blackswift.cloud/front-commerce/front-commerce/-/tree/main/skeleton/example-extensions/faq-demo/graphql)
  installed and configured if you want to execute code samples without any

>   changes

Reviewer 3: **thought:** I think we should mention it as `FAQ example extension`  and not FAQ graphql module.

**thought:** the FAQ module is not a prerequisite if it basically contains all what the guide explains.

**suggestion:** Rather than listing it in the prerequisites, add in an `:::info` section that the outcome of this guide is already available in the skeleton's FAQ extension.

Author: Fixed with your suggestion

## Create a Domain event class

Let's create a file in our project, called `QuestionVotedEvent.ts`:

> ```tsx title="app/server-events/events/QuestionVotedEvent.ts"

Reviewer 3: **suggestion:** Please see what I suggested in https://gitlab.blackswift.cloud/front-commerce/front-commerce/-/merge_requests/3163 about this file.

// We define a static event Name for our event
const QuestionVotedEventName = "QuestionVotedEvent";

// Definition of the payload
type QuestionVotedEventPayload = {
  questionSlug: string;
  upVote: boolean;
};

// We define an event class that extends the ServerEvent class
// This class will handle data to be pushed to the server event pipeline
export default class QuestionVotedEvent extends ServerEvent<QuestionVotedEventPayload> {
  static event_type = QuestionVotedEventName;

  // We define the constructor for our event
  // It will call the super constructor (constructor of ServerEvent)
  // to dispatch event to the server event pipeline
  constructor(questionSlug: string, upVote: boolean, shopId: string) {
    super(
      QuestionVotedEventName,
      new Date(),
      // This are data that we want to gather
      // The question
      // If the question has been upvoted or downvoted
      { questionSlug, upVote },
      // This are the event metadata, they are relative to the event
      // but don't contain event data, here we collect the shopId
      // to determine on which shop the question has been voted
      { shopId }
    );
  }
}
```

:::info

> You can checkout the
> [ServerEvent Reference](/docs/3.x/api-reference/front-commerce-core/ServerEvent)
> to learn more about the usage of ServerEvent class.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can check the
[ServerEvent Reference](/docs/3.x/api-reference/front-commerce-core/ServerEvent)
out to learn more about the usage of ServerEvent class.
```

Author: Fixed with your suggestion

:::

> That's it!

Reviewer 3: **suggestion(non-blocking):** Avoid the repeating use of "That's it!" when the guide isn't finished yet 😄 

```suggestion
```

Author: Fixed with your suggestion

## Use the Event

Now that we've created a Domain event class, let's use it in a route action:

> ```tsx title="app/routes/_main.faq.$slug.tsx"

Reviewer 3: suggestion: Please see what I suggested in https://gitlab.blackswift.cloud/front-commerce/front-commerce/-/merge_requests/3163 about this file.

> ```tsx title="app/routes/_main.faq.$slug.tsx"
> ...
> export const action = async ({
>   context,
>   params,
>   request,
> }: ActionFunctionArgs) => {
>   const { slug } = params;
> 
>   const formData = await request.formData();
>   // The `action` uses the `FrontCommerceApp` class to access the Front-Commerce
>   // core from Remix. In this example, we use it to mutate data in the GraphQL
>   // unified API (similar to the one you're used to).
>   const app = new FrontCommerceApp(context.frontCommerce);
>   const response = await app.graphql.mutate(VoteIsFaqUsefulDocument, {
>     input: {
>       slug,
>       isFaqUseful: formData.get("isFaqUseful") === "true",
>     },
>   });
> 
>   // highlight-start
>   // We call the `ServerEventBus` to dispatch an event.
>   // In this example, we use it to dispatch a `QuestionVotedEvent` event.
>   // We will instanciate a `QuestionVotedEvent` class with the data we want to
>   // collect for this event.
>   app.services.ServerEventBus.publish(
>     new QuestionVotedEvent(
>       String(slug),
>       formData.get("isFaqUseful") === "true",
>       app.config.currentShopId
>     )
>   );
>   // highlight-end
> 
>   if (!response.voteIsFaqUseful) {
>     throw new Response("Question not found", { status: 404 });
>   }
> 
>   return json({
>     success: response.voteIsFaqUseful?.success ?? false,
>   });
> };
> ...
> ```

Reviewer 3: **issue:** I don't think this highlight makes sense.

In the prerequisites section, you mention that the reader can directly use the `FAQ extension` example if they want to see the server events in action **without any code changes**. This implies that everything in this guide is **new** to their project, as in, they'll have to create the entire `app/routes/_main.faq.$slug.tsx` file for this to work.

**suggestion:** remove all mention of code coming from the FAQ extension example, and focus on what's actually necessary for the event to be used correctly. The following suggestion is _just_ a suggestion, and should be reworked as you see fit.

```suggestion
```tsx title="app/routes/_main.faq.$slug.tsx"
// ...
export const action = async ({
  context,
  params,
  request,
}: ActionFunctionArgs) => {
  const { slug } = params;
  const app = new FrontCommerceApp(context.frontCommerce);

  // ... Here should be the "voting" mechanism (probably a mutation)
  
  // We call the `ServerEventBus` to dispatch an event.
  // In this example, we use it to dispatch a `QuestionVotedEvent` event created above.
  app.services.ServerEventBus.publish(
    new QuestionVotedEvent(
      String(slug),
      formData.get("isFaqUseful") === "true",
      app.config.currentShopId
    )
  );

  // ... The rest of the action, return, etc.
};
...
```
```

Author: fixed with your suggestions

## Test our emitter

Now that everything is ready, let's test it! To do so, start the Front-Commerce
Worker by running:

```shell
pnpm run worker
```

The worker will boot:

```
2024-02-23 14:55:21 [info]:     Font-Commerce Server Events Worker
2024-02-23 14:55:21 [info]:     Please wait booting...
2024-02-23 14:55:24 [info]:     Worker started
```

> And now let's head to the faq question page and vote.

Reviewer 3: **suggestion:** Provide a direct URL to said FAQ page section.

You will see new output to the worker:

```
[ConsoleIntegration]: (1708696560088-0) {"event_type":"QuestionVotedEvent","created_at":"2024-02-23T13:56:00.080Z","payload":"{\"questionSlug\":\"probleme-colis\",\"upVote\":true}","metadata":"{\"shopId\":\"default\"}"}
```

> And that's it! You now know how to create your own event emitter and send
> server-side events.

Reviewer 3: **issue:** This guide is about creating and sending server events, not creating emitters. To be clear, "creating a server emitter" is (and should be) only done one time [here](https://gitlab.blackswift.cloud/front-commerce/front-commerce/-/blob/main/packages/core/events/domain/UserJourney.ts#L9) in Front-Commerce core. It is not the responsibility of the integrators to do so.

```suggestion
And that's it! You now know how to create and emit your own server events.
```

Author: Fixed with your suggestion

<p>{frontMatter.description}</p>

## What is an event emitter

> The events are dispatched with what we call Event Emitter. The role of the event emitter is to push events to the Server event pipeline to be processed by the server.

Reviewer 3: **issue:** I think your prettier isn't working, this line looks awfully long to me.

> The events are dispatched with what we call Event Emitter. The role of the event emitter is to push events to the Server event pipeline to be processed by the server.

Reviewer 3: > what we call Event Emitter

**issue(non-blocking):** Event emitters are a standard concept in many languages, we didn't invent anything.

**suggestion:** Rephrase this sentence
```suggestion
The events are dispatched through the use of an event emitter. The role of the event emitter is to push events to the server event pipeline to be processed by the server.
```

Author: updated with your suggestion

> In this guide, we will cover the creation of an emitter and how to implement them in your pages, we will create an Emitter that Emit an event when a customer reach a page called FAQ.

Reviewer 3: **issue:** This sentence does not has anything to do with what an event emitter is really;

**suggestion:** Update the guide's description with this sentence, and remove it from this section.

## Create a new route

Create the following route in your project:

```tsx title="app/routes/_main.faq.tsx"
export default function FAQ() {
  return (
    <div>
      <h1>FAQ</h1>
    </div>
  );
}
```

> And now test your route by starting your Front-Commerce server and navigate to [http://localhost:4000/faq](http://localhost:4000/faq)

Reviewer 3: Small typo.

```suggestion
And now test your route by starting your Front-Commerce server and navigate to [http://localhost:4000/faq](http://localhost:4000/faq).
```

Author: Fixed

> You should now see your brand new page

Reviewer 3: Small typo.

```suggestion
You should now see your brand new page.
```

Author: fixed

## Create an Emitter class

> Let's create a file in our project, called 'FAQPageReached':

Reviewer 3: **nit:** Use code formatting instead:

```suggestion
Let's create a file in our project, called `FAQPageReached`:
```

Author: Fixed

type FAQPageReachedEventType = {
  question: string;
};

export default class FAQPageReachedEvent extends ServerEvent<FAQPageReachedEventType> {
  static event_type = FAQPageReachedName;

  // In our guide we will check if customer pass
  // And we will submit a metadata object containing metadatas about the event
  // Here we will retrieve the locale
  constructor(question: string, locale: string) {
    // Call the constructor of the base class, the new Date() match the event creation date
    super(FAQPageReachedName, new Date(), { question }, { locale });
  }
}
```

That's it!

## Use the Emitter

Now that we've created an Emitter, let's use it in our page:

```tsx title="app/routes/_main.faq.tsx"
import { FrontCommerceApp } from "@front-commerce/remix";
import FAQPageReachedEvent from "../server-events/events/FAQPageReachedEvent";
import type { LoaderFunctionArgs } from "@remix-run/node";

//highlight-start
export async function loader({ context, request }: LoaderFunctionArgs) {
  // We create a Front-Commerce App to access the ServerEventBus Service
  const app = new FrontCommerceApp(context.frontCommerce);
  // We parse the question from the URL

>   const question = new URL(request.url).searchParams.get("question");

Reviewer 3: **question:** As of right now, there is nothing in the code that will set any `question` params. Should this example re-use the existing `skeleton/example-extensions/faq-demo` instead, so that it works out of the box?

**note:** It would also require updating this guide a bit.

Author: This example is using simple GET searchParam and inject it in event, the mail goal is to tell the user "see, you can inject custom stuff in it".
I don't think it's necessary to go further

Reviewer: I think it's important to have working examples, as @Kagaminara mentions there is no working example here, it's a half implemented feature.

As an integrator I would expect to be able to copy paste this in my application, then it should work.

Reviewer: I would even argue that it should be added to the faq-demo: https://gitlab.blackswift.cloud/front-commerce/front-commerce/-/blob/b6381e9b4daf14a321aec1f3e45de064e7504160/skeleton/example-extensions/faq-demo/routes

Author: Added to FAQ demo, please see relevant MR in main repo

Reviewer 3: Resolving as the FAQ demo is now used / mentioned in this guide.
